okay so Mitch can you any any first of
all any questions concerns about today
like any thoughts I'm good I'm good yeah
no like I've I got no concerns man okay
so can you can first of all thanks for
coming on again I yeah I was really
excited to actually talk to Hank it I
think the last time we spoke really
helped me in a lot of ways actually it
may be see things differently and I feel
like it helped other people see a side
of me I don't quite normally show that
makes sense yeah so can you help me
understand what you what you saw
differently after our last session yeah
I definitely took into consideration
what you said about the thinking black
and white so I've been trying to work on
that and not like look at those things
just like set in stone like I used to
look at them so I'm trying to have more
of an open mind with that good and I've
actually been taken like steps sometimes
mom do you know just feeling overwhelmed
or whatever I'm just like alright I'm
just gonna think in the moment just like
chill whatever and I've been thinking
like a lot about different things I
guess it's it's hard to explain it's
like my like true calling for like who I
want to be is kind of like surfacing if
that makes sense
yeah that sounds awesome can you tell us
about that yeah I said I I I definitely
think like I like I'm like really in
it's like health stuff right and I've
been thinking maybe I could like
transition into like doing that somewhat
and maybe monetizing it somehow I don't
know how but like sure no no just like
doing something different and like
having other hobbies that aren't just
like you know waking up and you know
wish streaming or whatever I've done for
the last like 10 years you know you have
living a little differently doing some
new things maybe being some new normal
people that aren't involved in twitch
and like finding out maybe flying some
successful healthy relationships outside
of this industry if that makes sense
yeah okay so so it sounds like you're
considering things that you kind of
hadn't considered as seriously before
yes definitely and I've always kind of
considered these things I just
never really was like acting on them and
now I think that I will do that because
yes yeah and and so Mitchell what do you
think so you felt do you feel happy um
that's that's a that's a hard question
answer uh happy in which I mean I don't
feel happy like I would do when I was 18
I gave him no Fox about anything you
know I don't feel that way anymore but I
definitely feel as though I want to keep
going to see where I can get in this
game that we call life right like if I
could get myself to a place of a peace
of mind or whatever it is the people who
are searching for yeah yeah so I I think
the answer is no which i think is a good
answer and it's very appropriate yeah
yeah I wouldn't say that I'm blissfully
happy now
yeah and and so you know it's
interesting I I don't really have a good
recollection of a lot of what we talked
about there were a couple of things that
really kind of stuck in my mind
help me understand you know what do you
think so you've been so twitch and the
internet have sort of described you as
like super super depressed and and kind
of feeling it's it's super hard to
explain I guess how the internet views
me and how like reality is you know what
I mean yeah okay sure where would you
like to begin with the so so how do you
think you're viewed by the Internet um I
think the internet views me off of just
like past experiences I've had and like
past things have happened because I've
been very open with my community and the
whole internet my entire career right
like I've shared every relationship I've
had every girlfriend all that's in
public you know what I mean so there's
like there's been this like fine line of
like
weird atmosphere about my relationships
right cuz when everything's public it's
very hard to have like normal lives yeah
yeah so I feel like people view me
almost like always for my worst moments
and it's like people don't
it's like strange like it feels like as
a public person you know if you ever
have like a bad moment that's gonna be
remembered 10 times more than any good
moment that you have you know yeah so I
truly think that people have this bad
taste in mouth from one like like I've
been through some [ __ ] and I lost my
mind or whatever like years ago and I
think people don't let that [ __ ] go you
know and they just kind of hang on to
that and it makes me also like not be
able to let it go as easy as I could
because it just reminded a lot you know
sure sure but yeah I say the Internet
definitely views me as like depressed or
like maybe manic you know definitely
very messy I'm not consistent very
uncoordinated those guys okay and and
tell me about who I mean who who do you
feel you are I feel as though I honestly
have trouble pinpointing who I am cuz
I'm always kind of flip-flopping like
what I'm doing you know like I'm very
inconsistent I'm very like impulsive and
I just kind of like be like all I do
this for and I go hard for it for a
while and then I stop and then so Who I
am it's kind of almost based off of who
I'm around and like what I'm working
toward yeah yeah yeah so I I think that
that's so that's not that's not really
the real you right so like like and and
I think what you're noticing is that
like until we understand who we are like
it's almost like Nate you know nature
abhors a vacuum and so if you don't know
who you are you're gonna fill yourself
up with the things around you
mm-hmm and the people around you and the
goals like you become the goal because
like you you don't know who you kind of
are on the inside yeah for sure and I
think with twitch I I get so carried
away man with like the goal right
I get so carried away to the point where
I just put everything about my
well-being on hold and everything I do
is for the sake of entertainment and I'm
not even living for myself I've done it
for years you know yeah I'm not saying
I'm doing that right now cuz I'm kind of
like half and half right now but I've
had moments of my life where I'm just
like [ __ ] it I'm all-in with this you
know like this is everything I have it's
all you know like it's just easy getting
to the that thought process we're like
Oh like I'm you know a mid-20s dumbass
who dropped out of college like how else
am I gonna make this kind of money
unless I go all-in with this or how else
am I gonna find the success again in my
life I probably won't write so it's it
feels is like I almost feel justified
and just like going all in it that makes
sense I think you're very justified in
it so I'd like to dig into that for you
because I think that that's not healthy
but I think it makes perfect sense
because I think you know you you have to
go all in to compensate for everything
else right so your only chance of
success is if you go all-in and then I
think I think when you go all-in you
also become more of Mitch Jones and less
of David and I have a very hard time
distinguishing the two of those people
right like yeah so tell me about Mitch
Jones and tell me about David how are
they different
well I'm a very sensitive person I mean
who like deep down to my core I'm I'm
very empathetic and sensitive and people
don't really know that or see that
because I just wash it off yep I I
really I have always been that way
cuz uh I don't know why I'm just I've
always been that way
just like super sensitive and super like
I can like almost like I'm like so
socially in tune with things that like I
it's so weird like mm-hmm
it's just very strange I had this like
social gift almost but I'm very bad at
everything else like I'm it's really
weird it's aw it's so so I'm just so
weird I'm weird I'm really weird yeah
yeah I I think when you say you're weird
I think that's a function of you not
really understanding who you are it
could be it could be I just know that
I'm bad at almost everything except
understanding emotions like I have this
like way of understanding people I'm
just like getting them without even like
knowing they don't have to tell me [ __ ]
I just know you know
and it's like it's really weird how but
yeah I don't show that I don't show that
ever like I don't show my sensitive side
or I try not to I have before right like
there's been times in the past where
I've gotten very emotional in stream and
I like it's always ends poorly you know
people were just like you know like it's
very weird you know you either get like
a reaction of like oh man or like you
just get a reaction of like [ __ ] you
they just keep you know this add fuel to
fire whatever okay yeah showing emotion
on twitch is almost always bad from what
I've noticed what do you why do why do
we wall off things [ __ ] am i calling
you mixer David by the way I mean
whatever you want to call me I've gone
by Mitch my whole life but what everyone
call me is fine
yeah so um why don't we wall things off
Mitch um of total - who - like Twitter
to everyone or like well in general why
do why do we put up cuz it it just it's
just easier like I don't think that
David would be a good streamer you know
he says yeah like I would be way too
emotional I would I would always look at
things like in this weird I would I'd
probably just sit there and talk about
key to all day you know what I mean like
I would literally just like be like oh
I'm working on this I'm working on that
like no one gives a [ __ ] like they want
to see content they want to see this
like thing this character this person
whatever like they just want that's what
that's what twitch is it's an
entertainment platform you know what I
mean I'd say 99% of the streamers on
this website are personified in some way
you know absolutely yeah so it's like to
just like to distinguish that from
reality is like annoying and it's also
very frustrating when I get judged
indefinitely on Reddit and everywhere
else based off of like almost like a
character's yeah it's like I'm doing it
for entertainment but it's like people
assume that that's just how I am so like
I'll meet people in real life and
they're like oh you're not actually an
[ __ ] and I'm like what like what is
that supposed to mean you don't I mean
like yeah what does that mean like I
don't understand
oh yeah like I haven't seen a lot
actually and I'm just it's just
confusing so yeah what's confusing about
that that people misjudged me because
even though in stream I don't even think
I come off as that much of a dingus I
just think I
have like a very bad like reputation I
guess okay
all right not even bad just like
controversial like whatever you want to
say like something this is like a
negative spin on things
yeah so what happens sometimes so can I
just kind of share with you what I'm
hearing try to tie this all things so
like I think you know this kind of goes
back to first of all your your thinking
a little bit more about like fitness
because it is such a big part of you or
health it's it's part of the real you
but it's not a part of the persona that
you show the rest of the world oh if it
was me I would love to be a monk dude I
would love to just like meditate find my
true peace of mind and just like somehow
just live the simplest life everyone
like a farm like I swear I would love
that maybe maybe I get bored of it but
for now that sounds like really good why
do you why do you think that why don't
why do you think that you can't live a
simple life in the circumstances that
you're in now because there's how how
would I do that I live like in a
streamer house I live in a cesspool of
like circles of different I mean maybe I
just don't see how I what do you think
one does they have very peaceful eyes
right what makes them peaceful
I don't know I think it's they did they
don't do like they don't partaking like
stressful things that would like stress
them out and their mind and body or
whatever right so you know that's kind
of interesting I mean I think in a sense
that's absolutely correct
so monks generally practice in isolation
to protect themselves of the influences
from the influences of the outside world
that sounds great and I also think that
most of the work that monks do has
nothing to do with the outside world
it's about the internal world yes
they're inside of their mind and body
right absolutely so I think that while
it's hard to become a monk in the
outside world I absolutely think that
you can be a monk in the outside world
so I'm going to share with you one of
the you know the goals that one of my
teachers taught me which is to be in the
world but not of it hmm what does that
mean to you
it means you are just existing in this
world this world is not your existence
something like that right absolutely
what do you think about that I think
that's a very true statement and I think
period people get carried away in their
own egos and ideologies all the time
when in reality they should just look at
it like you know like exactly the way
you're saying like I feel like when you
look at things I don't know I don't know
I don't really want to get too deep I
don't know I think you are so I'm saying
right I do understand what you're saying
what's your reluctance to get too deep
into it I don't know I'm just I'm not
very good at articulating words that
sound correct so I just rather not say
big words or get into like I don't like
ideals of like inner mind and all this
stuff you know yeah so what's wrong with
what's wrong with you
if you're not good at something what's
wrong with doing it
well I'd say I'm not the sharpest tool
in the shed right so when I do it on
streem and I just get backlash for it so
I just would rather not
so make sense yeah so but do you think
you're getting backlash now I'm not even
reading chat but I just would rather not
go into like deep like I just know I've
done this before we're like I'll say
something like five heads stuff or like
things that I believe are true and it's
like no one will ever take me serious so
there's almost no point me talking about
those things yeah can I think for a
second sure
so Mitch I think you don't let yourself
be you that could be I don't think you
let yourself be you at all because I
think you're afraid that if people see
you they're not gonna like it mm-hmm
and somewhere along the way you started
to need people's approval oh that's a
hundred percent when I had people's
approval and made me like this god mode
streamer like I remember like back in
like a 2015-16 like I had the most
loving crazy loyal community and like
every whoa
everyone if anything ever was bad said
about me it was immediately downloaded
every but like you know like I had a
crazy cool fan base and that [ __ ] like
maybe like fired ups like given like the
good content you know like and then one
day that kind of all changed and it's
like flipped on its head and like I got
a shitload of hate and I didn't know how
to deal with that so I just like got
super depressed and I had this like it's
just like changed everything
but the approval was like a dick ting
man like I'm not gonna lie like when
you're getting like go go go go no no
I'm saying what are you getting that
like positive reinforcement for
everything you do it makes doing your
job so easy you know yeah so I I think I
think getting all that positive
reinforcement in a weird way was one of
the worst things that happened to you Oh
hundred percent yeah I was literally the
most spoiled streamer for so long like I
could ditch for like months and come
back and still maintain like eight
thousand viewers and like this was like
five years ago you know what I mean and
it was nuts like I could literally go on
hiatuses and just come back and there
was just no one back then that like was
as good as like entertaining or whatever
at the time I mean people were way more
entertainment in me now but I think back
then I had a good nishan like it's like
whatever I was doing I was doing I was
doing right you know what I mean yeah
and it was so nice to have that positive
reinforcement for so long so I think
it's nice to have positive it's nice for
anyone to have positive reinforcement
but I think that you it wasn't just
positive reinforcement for you I think
it was oxygen and water in life blood
what the the reinforcement was that yeah
Thursday Oh 100%
yeah no I fed off that so hard yeah and
so then the question is why were you
hungry
where are you needed to feed off of that
I don't know it's almost like I build my
identity around it at that point right
like oh absolutely so I think your your
identity started to build around that
that's when Mitch Jones was born oh yeah
yeah and then you started to become an
icon and I think the more that you
became an icon and the more that you
became the stage presence the more you
lost to yourself because you've shared
with us that you you don't want to show
people parts of David because they're
they're looking for Mitch Jones and if
you show up as David you're gonna get
negative reinforcement and somewhere
along the way you became dependent upon
both the positive reinforcement and the
negative reinforcement and you sort of
your life became tied to twitches like
impression of you you're worth became
tied to twitch his impression of you
mm-hmm and even though the positive
reinforcement sounds good I think both
of these are dangerous situations
because who you are becomes determined
by how you view your viewed that's so
that's exactly how I feel man it's like
I just wish you could have that moment
in the Sun like forever no that's bad
that's so great that those moments are
so good though man no that's not I was
writing this high for like years
Mitch that is not where I'm trying to
lead you okay so I know and this has to
be understood like why why do I think
that that's bad because it's not there's
no realistic longevity with that and
plus it's building its building yourself
up on a false narrative anyways right
exactly yeah no I understand all of this
it was a [ __ ] damn good time though
man
yeah I'm sure so I'm sure you'll get
there again too good no sex with a good
time boys good yeah that's good and I
and this is really important so I want
you to like really think about this
Mitch where I I think that and this is
true for everyone who's watching too
you know I think that
we sometimes want just the highs from
life but that's not how life works peace
from life does it like so you think when
you envision just having like your
moment in the Sun Shine forever right
that's not actually how a monk lives a
monk doesn't live with a moment of
sunshine forever they attained their
peace but how do they do it through
honestly being alright with boredom and
being already with mediocrity and all
those things like just being alright
with whatever is is and they're okay
with the exactly so if you crave your
moment in the Sun that's the problem
it's the crazy you of me though I swear
there's like the one there's a decided
me that doesn't crave that and I can
just throw it all away and I've done it
before and then there's a side of me
that always comes back so it's like I'm
like almost internally like struggling
yep like so I desire so now we have to
think about where was that second Mitch
born the second Mitch Mitch Jones let's
say right okay so think about this Lorne
who needs who needs like so like I I
mean I kind of have I'm trying to lead
you to this because I have a hypothesis
about this so here's let me just be more
transparent instead of like you know
kind of lawyer your my way to it so you
know I I think that the something
generally speaking people crave moments
in the Sun when there's something about
themselves or their life that is just
like really really hard to accept or
deal with so you need twitch to like
make you feel good because there's
something within you that doesn't make
you want to feel that doesn't make you
feel good and while David overall feels
good like I think you like to connect
with him but there's something about
David that you want to run away from by
becoming Mitch Jones
and if you want true peace the the way
to get rid of the longing for permanent
sunshine like you crave the highs of the
good years of twitch once again the way
to get rid of that craving is to be
satisfied with who you are yeah no I
agree I agree with that and I've done
work to do that but doing that at the
same time as twitch seems almost
impossible I think that that's really
hard like imagine trying to like be this
thing and then having to like it's like
turn it off and all and always it's just
like exhaust yeah it's it sounds really
hard I don't know if it's actually
possible but so I think that's why I've
always taken long breaks from twitch and
I'm just like okay I gotta find out who
I am again and I find myself again and I
lose myself again and I find myself
again it's like a cycle so when we think
about David's life what is it that that
bothers you the most about David's life
100% not being able to connect to anyone
anyone that's the most thing like I
can't connect with any people I don't
trust anyone am I like there's just no
way I can like make meaningful
relationships because I truly think that
the only reason people come into my life
anyway is for Mitch Jones not for David
so make sense yep so so forth it's super
hard for me to make meaningful
relationships like super hard right and
that sucks and I feel like it's been
almost every girl I've dated almost
every person I've interacted with like
it's just it's it's a really sad lonely
existence when you know that you're just
a piece of meat you know like you're not
anybody else but a piece of meat you
weren't always lonely you're right I had
real friends and a bunch of cool people
that I grew up with until those things
faded and then you know I kind of had to
dive into this world that is like almost
like Hollywood 2.0 yeah so I think I
think what you've got to manage and I'm
still sort of beating around the bush
you know so so you kind of mentioned to
me before that there there's someone
there there have been people in your
life or one person in particular
whose really like known you and accepted
you yes yes there's been a few like I
still have like one really close friend
back home but we don't keep in touch
that much but he definitely understands
me and like has connected to me on that
level as well but it's like that and my
mom how old you were how old were you
when Mitch Jones was born uh I'd say
twenty-one okay how old were you when
your mom got sick hmm like 18 19 yeah it
depends on what you like I was always
kind of like a laughing click like Mitch
Jones isn't like a completely
personified made-up thing like it's like
that's hat then I can get into that
place like just being myself you know
but it's like we need to force yourself
to that place then it's almost like what
is this you know like this makes perfect
sense so I think that it is a piece of
my personality it's just like I'm
sitting you have today we're sit out
David was a clown yeah 100% I was it's
always been a crowd I think that's a
part of who you are I think that's a
part of your authentic self
yeah for sure and my general hypothesis
Mitch just so I'll kind of lay it out is
I think that you know I I think a lot of
this comes down to your mom I think a
lot of it does as well and I there's
nothing I can do about that though you
know that's that's already done I guess
I can maybe like what kind of thinking
is that I I don't know I don't know what
I can do yeah so I can't change what
happened you know you can't change what
happened but yeah a lot of it does come
down to that how so cuz I just truly
think like she was like the rock in my
life that just kept everything okay and
then I've lost that and I had to like
and I tried to like what are you doing
mink I'm just randomly shifting tabs cuz
HD I'm just being ADHD I don't think so
you haven't been doing that very much
III don't know yeah I just really
fidgeting I don't know why absolutely I
completely agree what changed in the
last 60 seconds
I don't know I guess we started talking
about something that's bothering me
absolutely right so what does your mind
do when we talk about something that
bothers you it wanders and you're right
it's wandering it's like trying to avoid
that doesn't like it yeah absolutely and
what's the what's the perfect way to
avoid it
fidgeting around and so I think Mitch
Jones is the ultimate fidget oh so you
think if I become Mitch I don't have to
none of these things surface and I can
just what I can just carry on yeah I
think that yeah I mean truth yes
definitely coz like when I'm streaming I
don't think about this [ __ ] I'm just
like in the mode I'm in the mode you
know absolutely right and you want a
zone so here's the thing about giving it
your all
when you become Mitch Jones you give it
your all right it requires a hundred
percent of you yeah and you can't give
it a oh your all without forgetting
about things you can't hold on to your
mom even 1% you can't be Mitch Jones if
you're thinking about her like you know
that you get the this sort of and I've
no doubt that like the clown within you
is like a genuine part of who you are
and I think that that even Mitch Jones
is like actually like a really authentic
there's like there's an authentic
there's a really pure piece of you in
there there's the guy that like got into
your mom's car without wearing any
clothing like that's like that was you
that was the real you
right yeah that's really who you are and
you show that part to the Internet and
that's why they love you because you're
not putting on an act I think you're
just giving them a slice yeah yeah no
that's true I think I got popular in the
first place just cuz I was a dumbass it
was like a good Meijin Wow you know yeah
I wasn't like anything I wasn't I don't
know like I wasn't really trying it just
kind of happened
and then what's it happened I started
trying because like it got more
competitive and stuff like that yeah
yeah so I mean I think all that stuff is
cool I think you know you've had a like
a rollercoaster of a streaming career Oh
100% I've had some crazy highs and some
crazy lows like it's
so really weird and I'm if it's okay
with you Mitch I'm gonna come back to
your mom yeah no problem because I think
you've got to be like I don't think
you'll ever be a whether you're a monk
living in a farm or you're here I don't
think you're gonna find peace until you
like sort of like process that and deal
with that and you kind of look at your
life and you say there's nothing I can
do about it but I in a sense that's true
like you can't cure her of what she has
but I think that there's a lot of work
there to be done and how how do you
suggest that I heal that pain I think we
start by facing it right we start by not
fidgeting we start by not opening tabs
and sitting with it and understanding
what it is I think I've been facing it
for so long though like I mean every
once in a while I'll just like face it
like it's had just happens no matter
what like yeah yeah and what happens
when you face it I get super emotional
and then I could and then I just try to
get back to normal and then I carry on
yeah so I think the mistake you're
making is in trying to get back to
normal so I shouldn't know I mean I
think that's that's what monks do right
so the monks don't try to get anywhere
they just let it all happen yeah right
to accept what is I I think what you're
missing is actually grief
so I think the
of grief is like if I had to put like
you know I had to use a word to describe
what you need to do it's grieving
because grieving is how we you know you
can't like you can't change anything in
grief does that make sense and it's
still really really important to do like
there are bad things that happen and we
can't bring people back from the dead
and I don't know if you I don't know if
you realize this but like I think in
your mind like they're like your mom is
like not really like she's gone yeah
she's definitely she's not gone
per se it's just like she's not the
person that she was or it's very
difficult to watch someone deteriorate
you know it's just yeah it's almost the
worst thing ever when you like see
someone's personality like be stripped
from them and their speech be stripped
their movement be stripped it's it's
it's honestly the most heartbreaking
thing I've ever had to see in my life
and like when I witness when I did every
time I fly home I truly just have a hard
time functioning because of how like
distraught and like upset and sad I feel
and I hate those feelings I hate them I
hate them so much they make me
unfunctional and then if I come on like
let's say I want to stream that day I'll
come on Twitch and everyone knows and
they can see the weakness in me they
they see it you know and like twitches
they're very uh good at seeing weakness
for it and like I get I get picked I
could I get torn apart and quite frankly
I'm I'm like terrified of like crying or
like those type of like deep emotions on
stream I I get very much so [ __ ] on for
you know like I've done it on stream
before and like I've it's just people
call me victim Jones or say I'm a [ __ ]
or whatever it's like [ __ ] so I'm gonna
do something that if this feels
insensitive or mean to you please let me
know but you keep on moving back to
twitch in a way that your mom so I'm
gonna keep you there so like you see
that like I'm done so so I think I
shouldn't think about to whichever no no
you can think no no
can think about whatever you want to so
it's gonna be my job to keep us on track
and I'm asking for your permission to do
so oh I I give you permission okay
whatever you want so that you let your
mind do what it wants to that's actually
okay so like that that's the reason
you're tossing to me is it's always bad
that I keep going back to the that's
like maybe my healing no yes and it's
okay right because that's that's just
that that's exactly what I'm saying so
like you see how your mind is fidgeting
so as you start opening tabs and then we
kind of go back because like in a weird
way your mind is comfortable with
talking about the pain of twitch that's
a roller coaster that your mind is
actually completely fine with even
though it's painful you can talk about
that you can access that what's really
hard for you to sit with is your mom and
by the way I think the reason that you
know you kind of say but I've dealt with
it before I faced it before and you know
I'm like it's like I'm not healed yet
and I think absolutely that's true and I
don't think that you've not faced it
properly I think like if we really think
about this I think you've done a good
job of facing it but I think your
situation is actually like really really
heartbreaking because it's going on
right so like when I'm when my dad
passed away eight years ago he was gone
like all at once and then I could grieve
him and move on with my life
in a bizarre way compared to your
situation I'm lucky because what I'm
hearing from you is like every time you
see her like another part of her like
kind of withers away and she's still
your mom and you still love her and you
can see the parts that are there but
like there's you can't it's not like
it's not talking about grieving once
it's like grieving like a like again and
again and again like every single time
and so I don't hold you like I don't
blame you at all for not being able to
move past it because this is [ __ ]
like it's hard man it's like watching
someone I mean she had brain cancer
right yeah yeah I mean so I've seen this
with people who have like cancer yeah
it's like it's just has so much man like
two strokes two brain surgeries just
like I spent my okay I'm having trouble
keeping it cool that's fine this is why
I just hate talking about this I hate it
these feelings are so painful man yeah
and I'm just feels so [ __ ] unfair
that I just don't understand yeah
because it is unfair dude and and there
isn't there isn't and there isn't
understanding yeah and I get really sad
like I see I see all these like people
that I live with and everyone they're
like such like loving parents and like
families and I just feel so [ __ ]
lonely man like I feel so [ __ ] lost
like I don't even all I have is like
this is why like put all my chips and
like all I have is this thing I've built
cuz I don't have anything to go back to
you know like I just my mom is not the
same she never will be my brother is at
this point in like some assisted living
because I don't even know why the hell
he's there but he is and he's not doing
well and then my dad is just focused on
his work and I I don't know I just feel
like I'm super alone I don't have the
traditional like sense of love and
family and any of that [ __ ] is it just
doesn't feel like so I feel lone in this
world feel very alone and I don't trust
anyone and it sucks yeah so Mitch let me
let me explain something to you okay so
I say this with love you feel alone in
this world because you are alone in this
world I don't want to be alone man I
don't want you to be alone either
but I I think it starts with like
understanding where you are right and I
and I think that unfortunately you have
been dealt one of the shittiest hands
that life has to offer and and that's
like I don't know how else like I'm not
trying to like I feel like there's a
part of me that thinks that I'm beating
up on you but I mean that's just the
truth right because you had one person
in your life and and she's like
withering away and you're watching it
happen in front of you what you're
dealing with is not like depression I
mean sure there may be depression there
but I I think like this is what we call
like complex trauma right so in
psychiatry like you know I'm not
supposed to diagnose things over the
internet but like there's this like
corner merging like there's a difference
between one event like so simple trauma
is like if you get you know like let's
say you get sexually assaulted or
something like that like that's pretty
bad but then complex trauma is when you
have like a loved one who like
continually abuses you like over the
course of years and it's a completely
different animal it's not just
straight-up PTSD it's like deeper and
what I see in you is someone who hasn't
been like life hasn't like you know
sucker-punched you once it's just like
you take a beating every time you kind
of think about your life and your loved
ones and stuff like that and then
there's this other weird thing that's
happened is like in order to protect
yourself from that
Mitch Jones rises from the ashes right
which allows you to access just that
part of you which is like beautiful and
funny and clowny and amazing and it's
like it's your moment in the sunshine
but that sunshine is born out of like
you stuffing other [ __ ] into the shadows
like Mitch Jones is in the spotlight in
an order for Mitch Jones to be in the
spotlight he's got a push David out of
it and then David is along [ __ ] the
absolutely that's what you've been doing
right yeah because you don't like being
David because it's hard to be David and
I get that man I really do in a sense I
actually don't I have no idea because
you know I mean I've lost a parent
but you know I still have people in my
life who love me and I'm really really
grateful for that and I think in your
case like the tricky thing about Mitch
Jones is then no opening tabs stay with
me
the tricky thing about Mitch Jones is
then you become Mitch Jones and then
what's frustrating to you is that when
people meet you on the street you want
them to see David Wright when you meet
people in real life I want to be myself
yeah I don't want to have to be this
like clowny thing that's like
entertaining people all the time you
know so in a bizarre way it reinforces
your loneliness because those are the
moments where David can be seen those
are the moments where like other people
can like you know get to know you and
you can start to form a real human
connection but instead all they see is
Miss Jones yeah that's true
I feel like Mitch Jones is the thing
that brings me any type of it's brought
me everything I have like you know I
mean like if I was just absolutely if I
was just if I was just if I just let
myself be like David the sad Khan
walking around I would just be another
depressed boomer who's broken lonely or
whatever absolutely right and that's
what makes this really hard so
understand this Mitch you have not
gotten to this place because you're dumb
you've gotten to this place because your
strategy works really well
Mitch Jones is your savior and and he's
what's holding you back right because
he's what he's what prevents exactly I'm
living in a tug of war constantly
absolutely how does that alive it feels
it feels bad man it feels bad because I
can't just like focus on one yeah I have
to do both yeah so so the problem here
is that like it's not David and Mitch
under the spotlight it's like they take
turns and there are times where you turn
off Mitch Jones you go home and then you
become David again and you don't like
David so you start to like move away
from him so I think that it's not that I
just like David it's more of just like
having to sit in that mental for a long
period of time drags me into it so deep
that I can't get out like I'll just
start just like I'll start getting very
like
antisocial and just doing like you know
whatever like just not productive things
you know so it's almost like it's better
to just not let that person come out
because it's almost always negative
exactly so now I want what now let's
understand that right so how can you
heal if you never let that person out
which kind of makes sense because if you
let that person out he takes over leads
to like all kinds of bad [ __ ] happening
on stream you become less successful so
I think what I would like to really help
you do Mitch is teach you how to let
David out how to let those negative
feelings out without spiraling out of
control
mm-hmm I I would like you to be able to
be yourself and feel those negative
feelings and then also to like you know
it's kind of we're gonna open the closet
door we're gonna take out something
that's disorganized we're gonna organize
a little bit and then put it back in the
closet mm-hmm because I I don't think
that you're gonna I mean this is not
you've a strategy that you have is like
materialistically successful but I don't
think it's gonna lead you to peace oh
it's not and and you've gotta I mean you
can't you can't live like this you know
you've gotta you've got to learn how to
grieve and and and process those
feelings and then also like the more
that you do that the less you have to be
Mitch Jones and the more that you can be
like the authentic clowny David who's
like kind of like Mitch Jones and then
my hope my real hope for you is that as
you become less of this like caricature
of yourself that you can start to form
like really authentic connections with
people and then my real hope for you is
that like at the end of all of this you
it's not about success it's about you
not being alone anymore that's really
more than anything else in the world I
want you to not I have a question for
you yeah you think it's best for me to
just find like my peace of mind to be
able to make connections and that's more
important than like the success of my
twitch channel I'm asking you because
like yeah they almost don't go hand in
hand like if I'm working on myself and
doing my own thing like that person
could be a bad boring streamer you know
like so so I don't accept your premise
because I think that
the way that so previously when David
used to come on Twitch it led to a bad
stream I don't accept that that has to
be true going forward yes I agree I
think the maturing could be a good arc
for my thing and also I think you should
be your clowny [ __ ] self like I think
you should be what twitch loves you for
because I think that's a real part of
you yeah for sure
and I am I so overwhelmingly I've worked
with a lot of people Mitch and a lot of
people are afraid because they this is
how it like this is how life works where
people come up with all these weird
compensatory mechanisms like like you
know I'll just give you an example so I
was working with someone who whose dad
the one time that their dad ever said
something good about them is when they
were a normal weight they got set to fat
camp and they lost stuff and were at
like the bottom end of like like below
that is like when they start to become
anorexic and when they came back from
fat camp the one nice thing they're
there their dad ever said to them is you
look good rest of the time it was like
emotional abuse and judgement you're
[ __ ] this up and you're doing that
bad and things like that
so one one time in her life was like she
ever got positive feedback from her dad
and so her desire to like meet her dad's
expectations caused her to like study so
hard and work so hard and take care of
her appearance where she became
incredibly incredibly successful entered
the world of finance made like [ __ ] tons
of money married someone who is equally
ambitious and rich and so her whole life
is based off of like this track of
success which is rooted in you know not
to oversimplify things but essentially
like a pattern it's not that she was
trying to make her dad happy it's that
in order to make her dad happy she
learned a certain way of functioning
which was giving it a hundred percent
which was going all-in which is what you
do to when you go on stream and she's
afraid that if she lets go of that
initial wound that all of the ambition
and hard work is gonna go with it that's
a gray
we're putting it yeah that's that's
spot-on that's exactly I feel yeah I
feel as though if I were to actually get
my [ __ ] together quote-unquote that
could ruin me yep because a lot of what
the appeal of my channel has been is
honestly it's it's a [ __ ] tornado you
never know what you're gonna get it
could be some craziness or whatever like
it's just always something ridiculous
right and like that's good content it is
you know and it's just like if it's just
like normal David like you know then
then then what like I don't I don't have
a college degree you know what I mean
like I don't know what I do yeah so I
think it's a very reasonable fear and I
mean the reason I shared that story with
you is because I think you know it's a
reasonable fear
the other interesting thing is you
wouldn't fear that unless deep down you
understood that these two things are
connected
yeah does that make sense it does yeah
so what do you think happened is is we
started working as I started working
with this person and she started to feel
more confident in herself what do you
think happened I'd say that her wound
slowly healed and she stayed successful
absolutely yeah in fact she became more
successful yeah I don't doubt it because
those ideals don't go away especially
when they've been they've been like
there for that long so healing her
wounds gonna only just make her more
powerful in the end of it yeah but what
what is healing your wounds gonna do
Mitch
I mean potentially the same thing
absolutely so that's what I've seen time
and time again mm-hmm well I would love
to do that and honestly if I could like
become a different entity to where like
I don't have to you know exert myself so
hard you know is it make sense
absolutely that would be great yeah I
would love that I would love to be
respected for not being like yeah like I
used to be respected for like for
example for like being very good at
World War Craft like that was nice like
not just being like oh it's that guy
who's controversial and whatever you
know it's it's way better to be known
for something being good at something
than this just be be known big to be
known somebody yes absolutely so you're
talking about kind of like Fame versus
notoriety right
yeah it's like I want to be sown for
actually being good at something not for
just being some [ __ ] jackass clown
who hits on girls and cringes around you
know yeah so let's be I'm gonna teach
you kind of how to process your emotions
in a second but let's just talk about
successive twitch screaming for a second
okay so here's the thing to understand
her psychological wounds when I'm
talking about my patient her
psychological wounds and her
psychological healing has nothing I mean
in a sense it has something to do with
her her success in her job but like
being good at your job is about being
[ __ ] good at your job yeah for sure
so if you want to be a successful twitch
streamer you need to do the things that
will make you a successful twitch
streamer don't think for a moment in the
same way that all this deep dark hurt
and stuff that hasn't really made you a
successful twitch streamer like you've
sort of sniffed out and evolved into
someone who's become a successful twitch
streamer and in the same way if you
believe that healing this is gonna
magically make you more successful
that's not gonna happen either oh of
course not it don't work it just makes
you lighter to be able to work harder
right absolutely so I think your life
will improve but being a successful
twitch streamer is about doing the
things that make you a successful twitch
streamer and if that involves being I
know that I know that left and right gut
yeah so the next thing is that you know
I think they come to you because you're
kind of this clowny person and stuff
like that and I think you should
continue to channel that and also if
they come to you because you're a little
bit of a tornado you should also do that
because I think naturally you're a
little bit of a tornado a hundred
percent yeah right I love a little bit
of spice in my life is yeah so so then
I'd say continue doing that like right
so you don't want to be you don't want
to be like wholesome like you you don't
want to be like wholesome because that's
just not who you are oh right yeah but
but you also don't want to be a [ __ ]
train wreck who disappears for months at
a time and is like you know like I think
it's fine to display than the
been there and and there's something
about I think there's something about
you know you being able to smile and
make jokes and also from time to time
show that you're like you feel alone and
stuff like that I think that's actually
why you became successful because I
think that like you got to understand
that twitch chat is like broken right
like we're all broken we're all [ __ ]
man we're all broken and so what we love
to see is someone who can smile and
enjoy their life and like still be
successful and kind of clown around
because I'm so good at hiding it back in
the day man I swear disagree hundred
percent Mitch I think all of them knew
you know they knew and you put on such a
good front that they thought they could
do that too they thought they could
become Mitch but deep down they [ __ ]
knew yeah it's all a matter of time so
David comes out of office they knew and
the fact the fact that you hit it so
well is I think what gave them so much
hope right because they didn't see it
yeah but they knew deep down nature I
think they knew I swear to God I just
when I watch this but I even felt it man
like the way I felt was I'm just like
all right like I'm I'm doing it like
we're out here like I don't have any
problems like let's just positive
positive positive like I just radiated
positivity for so long so [ __ ] toxic
dude that is so toxic is it yes just be
a positive ball of fun that's bad yeah
because I mean that's you pushing David
into the shadows right so I think it's
fine to be a positive ball of fun but I
think you have to give yourself space to
be negative yeah no but I've been
negative now for a long time so like you
know like it went from like polar ships
like I'm talking like super positive
everything was good to like depressed
awful terrible you know like I'm talking
like so bad both of those are wrong
right so this is something so so now
make sure this is this is exactly like
so last time we talked about black and
white thinking why do you think I've
been like pushing you with black and
white thinking
because it's pretty obvious that's what
I do it's like always pull they're
opposites there's no ground exactly yeah
and the monk is the one who walks the
middle ground I need to get to the monk
middle man I need at the middle so this
is how it starts okay
okay I want you to sit up straight okay
yeah do that for your good treat your
back with a little bit of kindness oh
yeah okay so so you're leaning back
because you've got like a gaming chair
okay this what I want you to scoot your
chair back you know a little bit grab
one of your pillows and I want you to
sit on one of your pillows and I want
you to sit don't lean back into the
chair so I want you to sit yeah and I
want your your your knees to be lower
than your hips or your knees lower than
your hips
yes okay grab another pillow so you're
even more elevated yeah good oh how tall
are you 511
okay so chairs are not designed for okay
so now don't don't lean back so sit
forward sit at the edge of your chair
okay okay do you feel with the second
pillow that you can sit up straighter
yeah okay now close your eyes yeah so
sit up okay yeah okay
so now we're gonna do is we're gonna
talk a little bit about your mom I'm
gonna just say some things about your
mom and I want you to just notice what
comes up okay
man I get set every time good so tell me
what you feel what is the sadness
I feel helpless I feel angry I feel
grief pain sorrow misery all those
things it's all I'm glad I'm I think
about them I'm glad you're able to feel
all of that [ __ ] now tell me what it
feels like in your body
um anxiety okay
what does anxiety feel like where do you
feel it in your body kind of like right
here good feel tight okay yeah it feels
like tight okay eyes need to remain
closed as best as you can okay so and
then do you feel so what is what is the
misery feel like where do you feel the
misery definitely in my like thoughts my
like negative thinking do you do you
feel do you feel like like a any kind of
like sensation like in your head yeah
definitely my head yeah like what does
that feel like I feel heavy like my head
is just heavy I can't there's no point
in like going on okay
doom effect yeah so so your body feels
heavy your head feels heavy you feel
tightness in your chest anything in your
throat or your stomach I always have
stomach stuff but I yeah I have like
acid reflux or whatever that okay so
yeah I want you to focus back on the
sensation of heaviness in your head or
tightness in your chest you feel those
are they still there or we've like start
talking about acid reflux and they go
away they're still there okay
so what I want you to do is I want you
to breathe in through your nose for
three seconds and then out for three and
now in for three and out for five good
out for five
guys can do this at home too okay and
then in for three and out for seven
and now in
five and out four seven and now
four five and out four nine
I want you to continue breathing kind of
in that pattern where I want you to take
good slow inhalations but especially
slow exhalations
and now what I want you to do is as you
breathe in focus on the air coming into
you that cool sweet air it's kind of
energy in life and it's like kind of
like going into the heaviness and that
you can feel that expansion of tightness
good so you feel tightness so breathe
into it
what do you feeling talk to me
sadness a lot of sadness I wouldn't like
breakdown I'm trying not to okay so it's
okay to break down oh okay okay but what
I want you to do is as you feel that
sadness so hold the sadness with one
hand I don't really do this one stream I
feel I feel like I'm just gonna get
ridiculed or so that you know okay
I definitely feel emotional very
emotions okay so I want you to hold on
to that emotion make sure stay with me
okay okay that's okay this is what this
is what we're here for okay okay okay if
it gets to be too much I can snap you
out of it but I'd like to I'd like to be
there with you okay I'm okay I'm okay I
just don't want to get too overwhelmed
where I'm like rolling on the floor
whatever you that's okay that's okay
well we'll keep you from getting there I
think you're doing a good job though
this is exactly what we want
we need those feelings to come out okay
I'm feeling tingly like all over my body
like okay return to the breath Mitch
listen to my words return to the breath
in four three out four five good out
through the mouth is fine in through the
nose out through the mouth
good feel your chest expand one more
don't stop okay give me three more
breaths and then you can cry two more
one more
you can do it stay with me
okay
I don't understand why I can't keep my
cool right I don't understand
no no it's not about keeping your clear
I need to keep my cool I just I don't
know like this no like this okay so
Mitch if this is hard for you that's
okay we can stop it sounds like it's a
little bit overwhelming so we're gonna
stop okay okay okay okay PEP guppy
you
I apologize seriously I'm so sorry
for what I don't know I just I just I
just I just apologize I feel as though I
can't control myself it's embarrassing
you know sure I can understand that it's
embarrassing but why do you need to
control yourself I don't know so we
apologize
go ahead no no it's cool
I just I don't want to come off as
though like I'm in pain or victim or any
of that [ __ ] I just got it you know like
it's bad like I can't do that what keeps
you from doing that it's not good I've
been here I just I feel uncomfortable
with like I get ridiculed or like it's
it's just I've it's just not good okay
you're so Mitch a couple of things to
just think about okay so the first is
that if you want to have a conversation
off of stream I think I'm open to that
so you just let me know so think about
that okay okay you know it's it's
totally fine I just I feel like I'm
being opened up and that's good it feels
good it really feels like I'm like free
bad negative energy but at the same time
like I just I've been very much so like
[ __ ] on in the past for like doing so
you know like I've had I've been to very
negative experiences in in sharing my
sadness absence yeah I'm with you so I
think that let's let's move
yeah you good you got that way why are
the dogs in here
that's no I think that's actually
exactly what you need
I think they sense something yeah the
dogs are just rolling around
I appreciate you more than you know and
this has nothing to do with you like
it's not like I feel so this is very
good I just I just don't want to put
myself in a situation where I'm gonna be
perfectly opened up to be like attacked
you know yep yeah so I think if that's
been your experience let's respect that
let's respect those boundaries I think
Mitch I'm gonna help you pull out of
this okay okay you want to pull out of
this whatever you whatever whatever you
think is correct
I'm I'm okay I'm just letting you know
like I just had I just overwhelming a
lot a lot of things like hitting me at
once and it's yeah that's all you know I
got I'd like I'd like to explain to you
intellectually what's going on within
you right now what do you think about
that I would I would like to yeah okay
so this is gonna have the added benefit
of as we engage our intellectual mind
your feelings hopefully will calm down a
little bit okay so Mitch this [ __ ] is
right beneath the surface this is a
high-pressure situation does that make
sense like all we have to do is calm
your mind a little bit and like all we
have to do is like like you know in this
is kind of like you know poking a hole
in a dam and then there's so much water
that like a little bit comes out like
all we're trying to do is approach in a
tiny tiny hole and instead of just like
one little trickle of water coming out
there's so much pressure back there that
all of these feelings are coming out
Yeah right all we have to do so
understand this when we start to
meditate which by the way you're gifted
at when we start to meditate well you're
gifted at you're good at it when we
start to meditate what happens is our
mind becomes empty okay is our mind
becomes empty it becomes somewhat of a
vacuum and whatever pressure is built up
within us starts to fill that vacuum of
the mind so there are some ways that I
can trigger emotion in you by asking
certain questions right so I can
pointedly ask you about your mom and
that can trigger emotion but even
talking about your mom the emotion is
pretty manageable stay with me listen
listen you with me yeah
stay with the intellectual okay yeah I'm
trying to I'm trying hard my emotions is
poor and man I'm trying okay do you
actually so then let me ask you do you
think we should just sit with those
emotions for a little bit or would you
like me to try to kind of put it put a
band-aid I was enjoying you yeah I was
enjoying the band-aid okay good
so let's continue with the painting so I
think this is just there's just a pile
of emotions that's down there and it
doesn't take a whole lot of emptiness to
let those emotions out so oftentimes
people who meditate for like extended
period like you know once you get good
at meditation people have these kinds of
like emotional breakthroughs where like
something deep that's buried within them
like kind of comes out and the deeper
it's buried the better you have to get
at meditation the more you have to empty
your mind in order to let that out does
that make sense
yeah it does in your case either you're
really really good at meditating which I
do believe you're gifted in or it's not
buried very deep does that make sense it
does make sense yes so I am yeah so
buddy like I just don't think like like
I'm gonna just say to simply you see how
much emotion is in there you see all of
the stuff that's in there the misery the
sadness the anger the aloneness all that
crap is in there there is no way like
what you longed for is peace there is no
way you can attain peace while that is
there
yeah the good news so what happens if
you you cut yourself Mitch what happens
to the wound heals overtime how does it
know to do that well I'd say white blood
cells going to the area and get very
present and started working their magic
and yeah so the cool thing about the
human body is that wounds heal over time
that's just how we work it's [ __ ]
amazing all we have to do though is let
them right so in your case you've done
such a good job at building up walls
around this stuff where it's like you're
not letting your mental white blood
cells like get to the wound and start
the process of healing it whether you
believe it or not like so you felt an
overwhelming amount of emotion and then
you described as feeling good and bite
you
it's kind of weird like so that's
actually the healing it's like
unfortunately healing doesn't look like
what it looks like and Wow
yeah it doesn't which is just green
numbers and then your health bar goes up
yeah there's even some manna biscuits
new yeah yeah unfortunately that's not
how it works I wish it was man yeah me
too man
I feel like emotional healing is so
difficult and tricky and hard to
understand absolutely man absolutely
it's so hard and and and but I I think
if you feel a little bit lighter you
know you talked about feeling heavy in
your head how does your head feel now a
little better I just know that I very
much so suppressed like that could have
been a full-blown like yeah like I felt
so heavy like so many things wanted to
express themselves and I just don't I
don't want to feel those right now so I
know that like yeah yeah so this is what
I hate about twitch so normally what I
like about doing this kind of work so I
do this kind of work with people in my
office and then what we tend to do is
they they can't because it's also
private and then what I'll do is I'll
hug them so generally speaking is a
psychiatrist it's a bad idea to touch
your patients because people say you
shouldn't touch your patients some time
ago I couldn't help myself and I just
started hugging people like I hugged my
patients because I feel like that's
really what like what you need what you
really need in that moment and this is
what I hate about twitch I was talking
about this at the beginning of the
stream that twitch feels fundamentally
unsatisfying to me because what you need
in that moment is to be held yeah and
the dog sensed it then Tillich's they
really did and and what you really need
in those moments is to let that out and
to be held and to not be alone which
like I know that twitch chat is with us
and you're not truly alone but like
physically and like oxytocin levels and
stuff like that like you just need to be
not alone yeah is it weird that like
twitch to me feels like my my only
family it feels like my only thing that
like I can truly just talk to and just
like vent and whatever no I don't think
it is I think it was weird until I
actually started looking at it for what
it
was instead of judging it from like
boomer perceptions yeah so like you know
the boomer generation we fundamentally
believed that human connection cannot be
attained over the Internet
like there was a time where like online
dating was not the norm it was what the
rejects did and it was like shameful
that like you met your your partner
online like cuz you couldn't find
someone in real life so you had to like
to be online dating where the weirdos
happen but now like online dating is the
norm and there are some ways I think I
you know you say this is the really this
is what pisses me off if I could if I
could take one thought out of your mind
it would be the one where I'm afraid to
do this because people are gonna attack
me I believe I have a very so I think
your history with uh like I with like
showing emotion with which I guess that
makes sense yeah so so I understand why
you feel that way and I think that that
is an appropriate and logical feeling
and I also think that twitches your
family and I think that's what's [ __ ]
beautiful about it is that like like
what I have seen is like you know I mean
I you know I'm I watched which I
participate in twitch I enjoy myself a
dank meme from meme from time to time
tink means you know just like just
really dank it like cut the kind of
stuff that you who you missed out in the
good times man I'm telling you
those were the dankest memes no dude
watch it which then of course man no
you're a dank meme err in the back of
the day
dude the dankest like so look man I was
around I was around I was around when
memes were born okay
oh shoot true boom like true boomer like
all your base are belong to us like
people don't even know what that means
anymore they don't understand this right
yeah like yeah ah you you know yet that
no I don't know what that is
see this is like you [ __ ] with Z
noobs like you guys don't know like like
man so like this is like back when memes
were born man like buffle axe you guys
know what I'm talking about
come on twitch you guys know about
okay so we're a little bit over our head
or out of our league here yeah so one
day we're gonna have to do dr. K does
the history of memes and I'm going to
show you guys the sweetest dankest most
original memes oh well anyway so but I
was surrounding the good old days and I
think it's not weird right so Mitch what
I want you to understand is that twitch
can be your family and and that's why I
like you know I on the one hand you're
afraid of what they're gonna do to you
because in the past they have hurt you
but just like a normal family sometimes
they do things that hurt you and
sometimes they do things that make you
feel loved mm-hmm that's all it was a
lot easier that's for sure yeah but it's
it's not real though you know like I
need to find like things that actually
ground me that aren't I don't know I I
wouldn't say that it's not real I just
don't think that it's enough like so
sorry I I think that the what the vibes
that I feel over the Internet are
actually genuine but it's just not
enough oh yeah no I feel it for sure
like I told you I have like a weird
empathetic side of myself and like when
I can truly feel that like that like
love power from the internet it like
shoots me to like being a normal person
for like a couple weeks it's weird
okay it's really weird all right okay
so Mitch so practically do you meditate
do I
I do sometimes yes I don't practice it
all the time but like there haven't it
depends on the phase I'm in in my life
you know but I definitely have gone
years where I meditate at least once or
twice a week so I'm a little bit
honestly I'm a little bit lost as to how
to advise you so generally speaking what
I so I think what you did today with
that little bit of meditation was
actually really good for you and I think
you need to keep doing it I think the
concern that I have is that I'm not sure
that you have the enough of a guardrail
around you to keep from like really that
dam bursting
so yeah but is the dam bursting you're
like very bad
well that's spillover in two days and
weeks or I should I hope not but the
short answer is I don't know in your
case right so I think there's a lot of
emotion that's right underneath the
surface and so my generally what I'll
tell people is I'll tell them to like
practice a certain kind of meditation or
something like that in your case
unfortunately I just don't know if
that's like really like safer handleable
right now I would say that if you're
interested in trying again you should
think about finding another therapist
because you only went once right yeah I
went to a therapist once and I didn't
really get very far with them either
yeah so I would really consider it like
add that to your list of you know
blueberries and other things like
smoothies and things that you do to take
care of yourself because I think you're
in a slightly different place now and
you may be able to get more out of it
just a thought the other thing is I
think you feel this stuff deeply in your
body do you exercise uh very uh
inconsistently but do you go to do you
have access to a yoga class I've never
done yoga but I do stretch from time to
time I see you got it okay done you got
to go to yoga I do massages and like
deep tissue stuff just like nah yoga
never Taichi no never no touchy
okay so you got a do yoga or Tai Chi one
of those two okay I think that's like
where you get super hot and then they
like stretch we're hot it's not about
stretching at all it's also not about
heat it is about mind body so the goal
of yoga is not about stretching it's
about to put yourself in a physical
posture in which you're stable and also
brings the attention of the mind to the
present that's the goal of yoga so it's
a meta to meditative experience absolute
so than like a physical one absolutely
so it is a mind-body practice so it's
was really that sounds like it could be
really good for healing like stuff like
this it is really good for healing am i
cry in front of all the Q yoga girls and
stuff like I don't really want to
no you won't do that you may do that at
the end but that's exactly what we want
right and if you crying for the key yoga
girls you need to learn how to let
yourself be David instead of Mitch in
front of the cute yoga girls it's hard I
swear when you have an audience it's
almost like you just immediately want to
like feel like good because you know
it's like it's like yes I'm professional
or whatever it something's bad there's a
bad snake but to it that's what we gotta
[ __ ] fix in you man like I know it's
hard but like yeah so go and instead of
being watched by thousands of people on
the internet it's just gonna be half a
dozen cute girls and guys it's like you
prefer yeah so so just give it a shot
and then the next time we talk like
please do it at least once or ideally
three times so that you can tell me or
do you want me to do yoga three times in
the next couple weeks
yeah like ideally in the next week and
then you let me know you know if if part
of the audience makes this harder for
you then you let me know and then we can
also talk you know uh you know not on
stream but if if you know but I I think
it's gonna be good for you as I
appreciate that I well if you if you if
we could do both like on stream and off
stream because there are things that are
very deep and like would almost like
come off as bias for sure on stream but
I would have to talk to you about it
sense yeah yeah so we can we can we can
set up a you know some time but I think
in the short term here's why I think
yoga is better for you so like when we
do meditation it's a purely mental
practice so all of the emotions come out
Yoga is gonna give you a chance to let
some of that stuff out like physically
without it sort of like mentally rushing
in and try it a couple of times and then
when we check in next you can just tell
me how it's going whether you like it or
you don't like it and I can try to give
you some other suggestions in terms of
guidance I assumed that I will like it
so I think you're gonna like it I do
like I like anything that's like like I
love like things like that like saunas
and all the kind of stuff it's good free
yeah
and who knows maybe you'll make an
authentic human connection but don't
expect Asians it's so weird man like I'm
so shy and like unwilling to talk to
people off stream but then as soon as
the cameras on I'm just like talking to
everyone right like it's just yeah it's
so weird like yeah you should see me off
stream and I roll around like a
depressed person I don't talk to anyone
like I'm so different it's so strange I
believe yeah literally so strange yeah
that's because twitch is a wonderful
twitch makes people feel comfortable
right that's what's so beautiful about
like twitch in this community like I
know that okay and stuff like that but I
think there's something about you know
being a shy person who has trouble
talking to people and like but like
you're one of us like it's about us yeah
it's us right it's not about the normies
we just always been that way man twitch
has always been this like it's like
amazing community in this corner of the
internet this is like such like a like a
tight-knit community you know yeah it's
not like YouTube or any other or like
platformers where it's just seems so
like spread out and like just not as
like me it's a not a family you know
like twitch feels like it's like they're
the boys they're like half these guys
have been riding with me since like 2011
you know what I mean like they've been
watching and like playing the same [ __ ]
like they it's just it's truly amazing
like what has actually happened if you
look at it like that you know yeah yeah
which is cool yes I I really really
respect those people man like any of you
guys that have been like oh geez
and like I've seen the ups and downs and
all that stuff like I appreciate you
guys man and I could truly you mean a
lot to me man
and like without you guys I probably
wouldn't I'd be [ __ ] let's just say
that I wouldn't be I wouldn't have had
any outlet for all my selfish
one last thing I'll leave you with okay
so this is gotta mom yeah so in my mocha
so I think that life has dealt you a
very crappy hand but you've got a couple
of aces in there
you are alive at the right time right
like this didn't happened to you like 30
years ago before there was twitch and
Wow and before you could be a good mage
like we are alive today yeah like we're
being a good mage involved Dungeons &
Dragons which is amazing and I love but
also it's like you know so like like I I
think that you know it's my firm belief
and this may be a belief that's out of
fear that life gives us challenges and
sometimes life gives us a lot of like
shitty stuff but life also gives us the
capacity like gives us the tools to do
what we need to to like overcome the
challenges that we face so sure you you
can feel alone because of your brother
and your mom and your dad and stuff like
that and also you happen to be alive at
a time where they're like thousands of
people who can be your virtual family
and do genuinely care about you yeah and
and so it's kind of like weird and so
it's our job to sort of you know not
love I mean we can be upset about oh you
know it's unfortunate if this happened
absolutely you're allowed to be upset
and grief and stuff like that but like
like it's not about black and white
right it's not that you're [ __ ] or
that you're lucky it's that both of
those things are true at the same time
mm-hmm
that there's David and there's Mitch and
Mitch is like this glorious guy who's
like you know doing this stuff on on
Twitch and then there's David who's kind
of like you know when he shows up like
twitch doesn't like it and stuff like
that it's about putting it all together
it's about like being a whole person and
understanding there are parts of your
life that suck and there are things
about your life that you're really
grateful for and it's been really
awesome to hear you express genuine
appreciation for the person that you are
in your circumstances and also to beas
likes to see you be so at the same time
like broken because of like how messed
up your life is and how alone you are
that you can be both of those things at
the same time and that's really what
life is and the goal of becoming a monk
is to be able to sit with both of those
things that's where peace comes from
it's not the sunlight it's not the
shadow it's Twilight
right by Stephenie Meyer and that's what
I want to help you do right it's it's to
face the bad and accept the good like
both of them it's not either/or it's not
being perfect it's not about being
successful it's about the highs and the
lows that's what life is
mm-hmm and that's the journey that like
everyone wants to see because that's the
journey that they can relate to
good breath good sigh thoughts questions
no I I really think talking to you is a
next-level experience for me I've never
actually had any type of therapy that's
done really anything for me
and it's very strange to give someone
else full control over like your
emotions like I feel like you could just
like give me like a weird pressure point
and just drop me and render me useless
for a week like I don't know yeah so the
reason this works really well is because
you know display it's not therapy
okay and secondly one of my teachers
once told me that I should use my power
for good and not evil yeah well you make
me realize things that I kind of already
knew but it's like you just like make it
so right there in my face I have to like
see it you know yeah yeah that's what
I'm here for and I also had one more
question yeah before we go try soive how
what is the best way of dealing with
like negativity and like people that are
just negative right
like I really struggle with this because
I always have this like weird righteous
way of like wanting like the truth or
like you know karma or whatever you want
to call it right like I get carried up
in these dumb little mind games with
like irrelevant situations and I'm
wondering how you would go about that
yeah so I've got kind of a weird you
know nature analogy because we're
talking about meditation and stuff so
what I'm what I'm envisioning is a
gigantic wave or a wave that's hitting
you right that's their negativity you're
there's kind of there's a kind of like
swept up Ness does that make sense to
what you're describing
so how do you withstand a wave you just
dive through it you can dive through it
absolutely that's not what I was
thinking but that does work that's what
I do yeah so I think it in my case like
I just have my feet on the ground just
let it hit you yeah absolutely right so
dive through it let it pass through you
let it let it get past you like the
important thing is to be stable within
yourself so I think one thing is that if
you engage with them it doesn't work
well right that's like trying to push
the wave away yeah I have this weird
thing where I just get so like I want to
like engage and I want to like I want to
like show them that they're wrong you
know yes it's so toxic so that's that's
ego right so you want to convince them
that they're wrong what you need to do
is dive through it yeah so you need to
move past them not like don't try to
stop the wave don't try to fight the way
because that doesn't work hmm
the other way to think about it is like
you know how do you get like if I have a
bucket of water or like let's say I have
like a bathtub like how do I get the
water to be still and calm down if it's
like display
like splish-splash late times absolutely
right so the more that you try to like
if I try to force all the waves down if
I like see a wave I'm like no you stay
still this water needs to say so this
water needs to say and that's what you
do you engage with them hmm
and then it's like trying to force water
to be still yes did your analogies are
always spot on it I'll understand yeah
so so what you let them do is let it
wash over you so like understand that if
you want to show them that something if
you want to show them ah that's coming
from you it's not actually coming from
them they're hitting a chord with you
that you don't want to be true mm-hmm
right so like some people have
criticized me and I think the best way
to handle criticism is to accept it
people like yeah I'm cool with criticism
I get more so annoyed with like certain
people that have just like super like I
could get into it so that's a lot but I
have this weird thing that like attracts
me to like negativity and like it's like
it's like a continuing theme in my life
so at Canter's yeah so I mean I'd say as
best as you can dive through it right so
let it wash over you like those people
are negative so take stock and kind of
who you are and like understand that you
can't convince someone so like Mitch you
know so you were earlier saying how what
I do is special and helpful right yeah
am I trying to convince you of anything
no I don't think so I think you're just
really learning yeah but how are you
learning without me convincing you of
anything cuz you're unlocking the
knowledge that's already there okay so I
think that's kind of the approach that
you've got to take for that right
whether they want to see what is there
is up to them you can help them along
but if they're in a place where they
don't want to see it you've got to like
let that move past you let them wash
over you
hmm I understand that trolls are gonna
be trolls like that's what like you know
you can't like that's what's gonna
happen but you can't change a trolls
mind like they have to want to learn
and overtime like the people that you
can engage with I think it's about ego
and stuff like that I think this is
actually worth like kind of a full
conversation so if we know I would love
to dive into this yeah because so I
think they'd be dealing with negativity
from other people and sort of this idea
that you want to show them and teach
them like how it is and like oh yeah
like yeah I have this weird like
self-righteous like this thing in me
where I'm just like I have to prove them
wrong you know yeah I know I'm right I
know I'm right and like yeah I just and
I just get so [ __ ] carried away with
that I ended up being losing myself in
those kind of situations as well you
know yeah it's it's a really common
problem especially like I don't know if
you've used this thing called the
internet but it's full of people that
self-righteous and right and want to
show other people how they're wrong yeah
I mean it's you know I check out the
internet because there are people who
are full of that thing there mmm-hmm
there there's like they're these so that
the Internet has all these different
websites but they're basically all the
same so like there's this website called
YouTube that has videos and people argue
with each other about who's right and
then there's this website called reddit
where they post something so they post a
link and then like right beneath it they
argue about who's right and and they're
just basically lots of these things
called websites and they're all about
arguing you even have like reviews of
like restaurants where they argue with
each other about whether the food is
good or the food is bad and so it's it's
I mean there's a whole you know billions
of people out there who are just like
you and trying to teach everyone that
they're wrong and we're self-righteous
so you know we could talk about it next
time but I think it it you know in short
as best as you can try to implement that
imagery of just like dive through it
yeah like the monk wouldn't care right
like the monk would just like let it
happen not get on developed in like my
own ego of like trying to like prove
someone wrong or whatever it doesn't
matter in the end of the day right like
so I'll leave you with one last thought
okay so yeah when you can when you
should convince someone is when you were
righteous but you are not talking about
being righteous you were talking about
being self-righteous
so that's ego okay so like what is
righteous that's when you're completely
unbiased looking at something right
that's what it's not about you it's
about them or about it it's about
service
it's about righteousness to do what is
right yes but I think what you are
talking about use the right word because
I think you're yourself right just
that's about ego this is so should you
try to convince other people of things
absolutely I mean that I spend a lot of
my time doing that but I do so when when
I actually am when my cause is just and
it's not about me it's about that okay
right so if you're like oh yeah just
like okay that makes sense for sure so
like what if you're like so certain like
you can teach people like you can teach
someone like are you like no you're
right right like you're like so sure of
it
that's still self righteous right no not
necessarily so I think the issue is
about like what's important to you are
you serving a cause are you trying to
prove them wrong and prove you right a
little bit of both yeah so I think that
needs to be separated because I do think
that like you know sometimes I'll I mean
sometimes I'll take a hard line with
people mm-hmm and you know I tend to be
nice on stream and usually I'm a nice
guy but sometimes if my blood gets up
and I think that there's injustice being
done I will use my power to destroy
others that's kind of how I feel yeah
and I think that that's okay okay
I you know I I think it's hard so you
have to have your ego in check and in
your case I don't think yours is very
healthy right now so yeah yeah for sure
all right well thank you dr. kay okay
she am in you're very welcome Mitch
strong word today I'm yeah definitely
definitely you are yeah definitely again
some work with whatever the hell is
going on good but I were to take care of
I appreciate it I appreciate it have a
good one man you too
okay so that was fun I really enjoy
talking to Mitch yeah no I'm not gonna
know so this is the thing right so like
if you actually think about it like
seeing into people's emotions we just
got it I gotta clear the air here so
right so like seeing into people's
emotions and understanding who they are
is also like what's used by like super
super toxic narcissistic people like
when you get someone who can understand
things and is like narcissus and
predatory they like destroy people so
you know but sometimes I think if like
there's injustice being done in the
world like you should like you know you
should stand up and fight and do what
you want like to do what's right
and help other people okay so guys this
is fun what we're gonna do I just want
to thank everyone for coming on again
and watching Mitch I think you know I
hope some of that stuff was resonating
with y'all you know I think a lot of the
stuff that Mitch struggles with is
actually true for a lot of people right
so like we wall off our emotions so a
couple takeaways when we have hurt we
tend to wall it off and create like a
version of ourselves we create like this
character and we try to be that
character because being that character
is better than like being like the hurt
version but the goal is to actually take
those walls down and like let that hurt
out and process it so you can be free of
it
because the thing about walling off your
negative emotions is it's like you're
encumbered like you know like what you
guys know like in an RPG when I don't
know if this hasn't happen and Wow
because you're like capped by space but
you know some like RPGs will have
encumbrance so you can be like way down
and it gives you a movement penalty and
that's what walled-off emotions are like
it's like you're feeling like way down
and sure you can still play the game but
it's like kind of hard
yeah your your can't fast travel like
you're just gimped in some way right so
the goal is to actually be like a
complete person and a being a complete
person is about letting all that
negativity out and kind of dealing with
it and accepting it and then you'll kind
of feel better about yourself you'll be
more at peace like that's where peace
comes from and understand that peace is
different from fun so Mitch has done is
he's walled all that off and then like
in order to compensate for the negative
emotions he rides highs right like he's
like super super fun and clowny and all
that kind of stuff so he like has this
inflated positivity to kind of balance
out that like walled off negativity when
instead what you want is to like
actually have both of those kind of
things be there at the same time sex
sweet and savory and spicy